src/content/ashish.md, before:

---
templateKey: blog-post
author: 
- Nini_Huang
id: Ashish-Blog
title: Ashish
slug: /Ashish/
date: 10/07/2020
description: Inside the Artist's Studio; Conversation with Ashish Dubey
headerImage: https://i.imgur.com/YUuroIe.jpg
tags:
  - visit-my-studio
  - ashish
---
### What is art all about, really?
Is art the static objects on gallery walls with labels and descriptions, or thoughts and ideas living inside someone’s mind? An encounter with a piece of artwork is perhaps also one with the human mind behind it: the artist. If we boil down the essence of art into strings of thoughts, could the experience of conversing with the artist enhance our appreciation and understanding of the artwork itself? Will the art come alive in ways it could never do as an object with an intellectual exchange taking place between viewer and artist? I entered a conversation with artist and photographer Ashish Dubey, based in India, with such queries in mind.

### "Inside" Ashish's Studio
Prior to our encounter, I have never met the artist nor his art in real life before, but technology has enabled me to visit Ashish’s studio virtually on my computer screen. It was not without its hurdles: starting a video call conference turned out to be more technically challenging than you would think. But then again, I was able to engage in a fascinating conversation “inside” the artist’s studio from the comfort of my own living room. In a way, it was almost like stepping into the artist’s own mind: we spoke about the general mission of art in life, notions of the “sublime”, artistic visions versus technical practicalities, among other things that relate to the processes of artistry. As I was invited into the artist’s personal spheres, my own thoughts and ideas about art also came with me. Together, we made sense of what his photography works really meant, yet that meaning was never fixated on any particular point. The encounter with the art itself suddenly became multi-fold through our conversation: lines, colors and shadows became live vehicles of the dynamic human mind, rather than just static entities.

### Art as Experience post-2020

I have read a lot about art as a student of art history, though I still dare not claim that I  _know_  art. It had even become the case that books and papers sometimes render art even more senseless to me. Academic knowledge and ways of rationalizing had me overlook the more intuitive emotions and wisdom in art. Of course, knowledge helped me to formulate my questions to the artist to a certain extent. But I found that a two-way exchange happens quite naturally with Ashish - perhaps as it would with any artist who is as  passionate and open about their works. Meeting him in real life would have been lovely, but if I was not introduced to an artist, I would certainly shy away from initiating any kind of conversation. So, our virtual meeting was a great way of taking the first step towards future encounters and exchanges. Ashish happily welcomed me to stay at his estate in order to see his works in real life, and in my own head I was already looking forward to boarding a plane to India in post-COVID-19 times.

Invitations to private viewings and opening nights are not needed to engage in personal and meaningful conversations with art and artists. Especially not so in 2020, as we have only now fully realized the potentials of virtual meetings and encounters. If you would like to take the initiative to interact with the artist of your liking, think about it as meeting an imaginary pen-pal: you have already engaged with them in conversations inside your own head, every time you look into and think about their artworks. There is also no need to worry too about theoretical knowledge or awareness of current trends in the art world. The real focus is your own personal experience with the art itself, which will quite naturally activate any related thoughts, intuitions, feelings etc. as you converse with the artist. Afterall, art fluctuates in dynamic ways, just as people would. Any experience with the art objects is only completed by engaging with the human subjects behind it. Ideas and thoughts live not only inside the minds of artists, but should also find their ways to you, the viewers, through conversation exchanges and “visits” to the artist’s studio.

_If given the chance, which artist's studio would you like to visit?_

Would you like to get to know Ashish as well? Here is his [ Artist's Studio](https://www.visitmystudio.co.uk/artist-profile/3e5ee3c0-5dd0-4e29-9c2e-90c9c6cb04d6) and [Artist website](https://www.dubeyashish.com).

Commit message:

updated blog with new entries

src/content/ashish.md, after:

---
templateKey: blog-post
author: 
- Nini_Huang
id: ashish
title: Ashish Dubey
slug: /ashish/
date: 2021-02-06
description: "Meeting Ashish Dubey was like meeting that super cool philosopher friend who is both a physics professor and an incredible fine art photographer. Okay, *maybe* I don’t really have a friend like that. Which goes to show that Ashish as a visual artist is really one-of-a-kind."
headerImage: https://i.imgur.com/515H0qi.jpg
tags:
  - ashish
  - dubey
  - story
---
# Artist Story: Ashish Dubey
## The Physicist Photographer Obsessed with An Indian Lake

Meeting Ashish Dubey was like meeting that super cool philosopher friend who is both a physics professor and an incredible fine art photographer. Okay, *maybe* I don’t really have a friend like that. Which goes to show that Ashish as a visual artist is really one-of-a-kind.
 
As a nature photographer, Ashish has been going to one particular lake in Madhya Pradesh, India, for the past few years. When he is not busy conducting physics research or teaching at the university, of course. But no matter if it’s dawn or dusk, rainy or sunny, cold or warm, the artist would venture to the same beautiful wetland whenever he could. When the light briefly hits just the right spot on the water, Ashish captures the most alluring geometrical shapes and symmetries with his sharp eye for detail. 
 
Ashish considers the art of photography like oil painting, with his camera as the painter’s brush and the light as the paint. In his photography, being loyal to realism doesn’t make the art any less metaphorical. On the contrary, Ashish’s snippets of reality convey just as much elusiveness and abstraction as Postmodern paintings. His take on photography is refreshingly unique – who would have thought that realism can simultaneously also express abstraction? 
 
There is no doubt that Ashish’s physics background bleeds into his artistic visions as he specializes in Non-Linear Optics. But his passions for physics and art are both bound by one common inspiration: the metaphysical, or the quest in understanding  our existence in life. Ashish tells me that one important drive behind his art is to connect with the ‘sublime’ in life, something beyond what we conceive as ‘real’. His photography expresses the philosophical and poetic thoughts he cannot feature in an academic research paper. Art helps him to connect with those intangible elements of reality just as much as physics does. In Ashish’s own words: “I look at photography to connect with the Supreme. As I believe that all art forms are an opportunity to engage with the unknown. “
 
 
Getting to know Ashish’s thoughts and artistic processes behind the art was like stepping into the artist’s own mind while re-encountering his art in a new light (pun-intended). Lines, colours and shadows on his photographs come alive as vehicles of the human mind, rather than just static entities on a computer screen. Although I won’t be able to see his art in real life anytime soon, Ashish invited me to visit his studio in India sometime in the future. But in the meantime, he is happily welcoming anyone for a ‘virtual’ studio visit via Visit My Studio to catch glimpses behind the scenes of his optic enchantment.  


*Link to artist’s website: https://www.dubeyashish.com*
*Link to VMS https://www.visitmystudio.com/artist/Ashishstudio*
